Hi everyone, I'm Gunjen Banerjee
>> and I'm Telis Demos. Welcome back to
another episode of WSJ's Take on the
Week. We've got a busy show today. We're
going to talk government unshut. We're
going to talk economic data or or are we
TBD? Um and we're going to have a big
conversation about AI, not from the
stock market point of view, but from the
bond market point of view, which I think
is going to be a big story in 2026. And
speaking of which, we'd like your help,
listeners and audience, for our upcoming
episodes. We'd like you to send us a
question about what you think will be
the big topics and questions in 2026.
>> We want to hear what's on your mind
right now as we head into 2026. So, if
you have a big question about markets,
finance, the economy, we want to hear
it. So, send us a note at take on the
weekwsg.com
>> or drop in something in the comments in
your venue of choice. So tell us, it
seems like the government shutdown is
over.
>> It is officially over in the sense that
the Senate, the House, and the president
have all agreed on a legislation to keep
funding the government. But is the
economic impact over? I think that's the
big question for markets. Whether or not
and how quickly SNAP benefits, those
food stamps, government assistance come
back because that relies on states kind
of restarting those payments. Economic
data, when are economic data reports
going to start coming out? When will we
have updates on inflation? Are there
going to be periods of time where we
just really never know what the official
government answer was because there was
no one there to collect that data? I
think that is still TBD and is certainly
something that markets are going to be
looking for in the weeks ahead. Then of
course the can that was kicked as part
of this agreement was on subsidies for
the affordable care act market. The
Democrats want a vote on that.
Republicans are promising a vote by
December. We'll see how that all works
out. But again, that's a big economic
uncertainty for a lot of people who are
participate in that market. And of
course, the the the resolution only
keeps the government funded until
January. So, we'll be here again in this
seat in 2026. There's one thing on 2026
story, but what do you think? Do you
think the market is ready to to resume
its its upward ascent now?
>> Yeah, it's not clear to me how much the
shutdown has impacted markets even
though we haven't gotten jobs data. We
haven't gotten inflation data. We don't
really know when we're going to get that
data in the coming weeks u because the
government hasn't been able to collect
that data during the shutdown. But it's
fascinating to me, the journal recently
had this piece about how despite this
lack of economic data, one thing that's
making people feel quite good about the
economy right now is the fact that stock
prices are going up. And you know, the
record dash that we've had in in
equities has boosted sentiment among
many Americans and made them feel more
bullish about the economy. So, it's kind
of a reverse feedback loop, right? I
think a lot of people think of the stock
market as this indicator of the economy,
but it's actually become something
that's driving how people feel about the
economy because people have such a large
exposure to the stock market these days.
>> Well, there you go. You're doing
something patriotic every time you buy
stocks and send the prices up higher.
We've talked about this a little bit
before, right? But I think it's
important to put some numbers around
this wealth effect. And you know, for
every,000 that your portfolio goes up,
that can boost your spending by, say,
$30. So there is a direct impact there.
>> There's one group of people though who
seem quite uncertain and they're very
important and that is the committee of
the Federal Reserve, the open market
committee of the Federal Reserve. WSJ's
chief economic correspondent, Nick
Timmeros, kind of the Fed whisperer.
what he's been writing is that there's
really less certainty than ever and less
agreement than ever and the lack of e
economic data has not helped.
>> Of course,
>> it seems like there's a really wide
disagreement and you have people who
feel like we've already pushed it
enough. You have people who feel like we
haven't gone nearly far enough. So that
getting economic data will be critical,
I think, to to making a Fed consensus
and then therefore giving investors some
sense of where interest rates are going
to be. But until we're past that, I
don't think the market's really going to
have the the fuel to to to rally
significantly. That would be my
expectation for the next few weeks.
>> It feels like the economic outlook is
unusually murky heading into 2026,
especially with this data issue. Another
thing that's really going to hold the
market back, I think, is that we seem to
have hit, at least for now, some kind of
ceiling on the AI trade. A couple of
weeks ago, we had a pretty significant
fallback in a number of AI stocks.
Nvidia, I think one day, fell 7%.
uh those have come back a little bit but
our colleagues uh Dan Gallagher and Asa
Fitch recently took note of all the
price equity ratios of the big kind of
AI tech MAG7 companies and what they
found that not one of them was trading
at the high valuation levels. So it
seems like investors have started to
peel back some of those bets and the big
uncertainty that's hanging around those
AI stocks is the expenditures, the
spending. But Genin, you know, I know
you look closely at retail investors and
and kind of talk to a lot of different
different investors. What's your sense
of like how the AI trade is doing at
this very moment?
>> I think people keep piling in. I mean,
people keep piling into the stock
market, right? Even over the volatility
that we've seen over the past few weeks,
US fund flows have still been really
strong and a lot of that is dependent on
on big tech.
>> Well, the question is how much more does
this trade have to go and how much more
money is it going to put in people's
pockets? And of course, we have Nvidia
earnings this coming week, which are an
event not just to talk about Nvidia's
numbers, but to talk about what's going
on with the AI economy. And
interestingly, we did see the giant
Japanese investor Soft Bank sell a big
chunk of its Nvidia stock recently and
actually to fund a bigger investment in
Open AI. So, it's in that sense shifting
some of its bet from the chips
themselves to the applications like chat
GBT which is what open AI makes. So,
that's an interesting trend that I think
people are going to be wondering where
is the money heading just within the AI
trade. What stocks might benefit from
here? Maybe it's less chip makers and
more applications. So, the AI trade
might continue, but what form it takes
might be really the big question
>> and what does it look like in the bond
market?
>> Well, let's lay out some of the numbers
that I think people need to to wrap
their heads around when it comes to
financing. You flip through analyst
notes from, you know, big banks, you see
numbers like, you know, the price tags
for the AI buildout, and that includes
not just the data centers, but the
power, the chips, everything that goes
into it. three, five, seven trillion.
And even though tech companies are very
big, rich companies with lots of cash,
that's so much money that even for those
companies, it it's a it's a question
mark of how they're going to get there.
And so, you've seen a bunch of different
things happening. You've seen these what
people call kind of circular financing
deals where uh if you want to buy chips
from me, why don't I lend you some money
and then you can do that. That might be
a nice cheap way to get some debt. The
person who wants to sell it to you might
be willing to lend to you at a low rate,
but that's also kind of a wonky
arrangement that raises questions of,
okay, is this is this bubble just
fueling itself? Uh is it profitable for
companies to do this,
>> right? And it's also stoked a lot of
comparisons to what happened during the
com boom.
>> So, it looks like there's going to be a
lot of other financing that's needed.
And one of the places that companies
will be getting that from is the bond
market. And by the bond market, I mean
really like the mainstream what they
call investment grade or high-grade bond
market. And so that's the market that
probably will fund a good portion of
this because that's one of the biggest
credit markets in the world. Uh there
again, the numbers there are quite big.
Uh you have JP Morgan saying that they
think the high-grade markets could
absorb $300 billion of AI and data
center related paper over just the next
year. They think that that could be a
trillion half dollars of funding from
that bond market over the next five
years. And so the question is what does
this mean for bond investors that
there's all this new paper as they say
coming their way? Is that good for them?
Is that a lot more stuff to invest in?
Or is the same worry that's been the
conversation about stocks, oh the S&P
500 is basically just a big bet on AI,
is that going to happen to your bond
funds as well? And is that a good or a
bad thing? Well, they say the bond
investors are the smart money, right?
[laughter]
>> Well, and so we called one of the
smarties in the bond market. Uh he's a
fixed income guru, I dare say. Uh his
name is Gee Labos. I had a conversation
with him earlier this week. He is the
chief fixed income strategist at Wealth
Manager Janney Montgomery Scott. We had
a wide-ranging conversation about AI
bonds, the bond market, what does the
Fed and interest rates mean for all
this? And we're going to have that
conversation after the break.
Welcome back. We're joined by Gee Labos.
He is the chief fixed income strategist
at Janney Montgomery. Scott Gee, welcome
to the show.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So, Gee, why don't you tell us about
what's going on in the credit markets
with AI? Is that having a big effect on
things like bonds the same way it is on
stocks?
>> Well, we talk about AI oftentimes in uh
in today's financial markets. I I really
want to recast that a little bit and
describe the concrete need for building
and investing stuff as data centers at
large. And it's not just the AI oriented
companies or software companies that are
that are using the storage, but it's
corporations too who are seeking to have
their data colllocated with some of the
processing power to speed things up.
Tech companies usually you think of you
know their main asset are the the people
who work for them and the things they
code right but now it's kind of about
physical assets too having those data
centers and the computer processing
necessary for AI that's a big change
>> there's a physical location where this
data is stored and kept and that
physical location requires all sorts of
construction infrastructure
>> and so even though tech companies are
known for having lots of cash at the
scale of the investment they're talking
about right some estimates are you know
let's Morgan Stanley analyst recently
said they foresaw like a $3 trillion
sort of financing need for AI by 2028
and they thought that you know cash flow
could maybe meet about half of that. So
that leaves a trillion half dollars and
a lot of that might come from the bond
markets the markets where you and I and
pension funds and everybody go to buy
the corporate bonds that provide that
yield part of our portfolio. So what's
it doing to the bond market to be seeing
and anticipating all that issuance? So
the issuance within what we
traditionally call the bond market
meaning intermediate to longerterm bonds
that are purchasable as as you
referenced by individuals by
corporations etc. That's relatively
recent, right? So, so I think we need to
go back a little bit to kind of the
origins of the cloud build out 2010ish
to 2015ish or so. Now, originally these
uh physical locations where data was
kept and companies like what we call
today the hyperscalers, they were often
built by REITs, real estate investment
trusts, and there's a handful of them.
For a brief note, I may refer to
companies from time to time, but they're
really just as examples. I'm not
advocating or advising that that one
company isn't somehow better than
another, but just for sake of example,
Google might go rent space in one of
these data centers. And eventually these
projects became large enough that it was
significant enough for Google and all
the other hyperscalers to stop just
renting them and start creating their
own spaces. Uh then in 2019 there was a
kind of esoteric accounting change which
basically said that anytime you have a
long-term lease when you're leasing
space or leasing a data center in this
example you need to bring it on balance
sheet
>> on balance sheet like they own it
they're responsible for the debt it's
their asset
>> and so this change in accounting
regulations spurred a change in
financing as well. So gradually over
time from really that 2019 lease event
all the way through today 2025 these big
tech companies have been gradually
bringing data centers onto their own
balance sheets and that means borrowing
money right in order to finance them
>> and you tallied up recently you said
that you know if you kind of uh extended
the recent deals that we've seen from
Meta and Google across the sort of
hyperscaler so-called hyperscaler sort
of AI companies that that would be maybe
a 20% increase in the size of the
investment grade bond market, the kind
of the main highquality corporate bond
market. That's a pretty huge extension
of the size of the of the bond market.
What does that mean as an investor if
just the size of the bond market is
growing so much?
>> Yeah, it's a really big shift. In an
average year right now, uh there's about
very round numbers $800 billion of new
financing. Uh and that means new
borrowings in the bond markets. And so
if we just extend those hyperscaler
numbers to issuing debt every six
months, uh we'd be talking about 20%
additional in addition to that $800
billion of new money. So in other words,
the US investment grade bond markets
instead of growing by call it 4ish% a
year would end up growing by five or 6%
a year. It doesn't sound like that much,
but we're talking about a net 150 to as
much as $200 billion of incremental
demand for borrowing and somebody's got
to be there to lend it.
>> Let me just see if I take your point
though about lending. Like you mean
people are people are buying bonds,
right? Interest rates are relatively
high. the the the yields on them are
higher than they were in previous years
perhaps and there's a lot of people who
who essentially want to lock up those
yields for a long period of time. So
there's enough demand to meet that
supply more than enough demand and
arguably there's not enough supply,
right? So as a result today the
additional yield that investment grade
bonds pay compared to government bonds
pretty narrow.
But if supply and demand come into
balance and maybe hypothetically the
markets get overs supplied from AI
issuance uh in a year or two that could
cause spreads to widen and the markets
to underperform because supply kind of
overwhelms the demand.
>> What does that mean if I'm an investor?
If you say spreads are widening, meaning
that the the yield that people want to
own a corporate bond versus what they
would get on a treasury is is more. Now,
I guess if I'm buying new bonds, if I'm
just coming into the market, maybe I
like that. But what if I already own
bonds? How would you say this shakes out
for for your typical kind of corporate
bond investor?
>> So, so I'll take your your second point
first. If I currently own bonds and
spreads widen, that means that bond that
I own is not going to perform as well,
right? The the nice thing about the bond
markets is they do well when absolutely
nothing happens. makes lives for people
like me a little bit boring sometimes,
but that's kind of like what what we
like to see as strategists and as fixed
income portfolio managers. We like to
see not much happen. And so if nothing
happens, spreads remain flat. We get to
collect our coupon, we go home, we have
a nice dinner. Now, if spreads widen,
the market value of that bond that we
own, which has its seen spread widening,
it declines relative to other stuff
within the bond markets. Um, so it's not
the number one source of returns within
the fixed income markets, but it's an
important one and it's one of the
biggest determinants of credit, meaning
corporate bond market returns. But what
about the just the credit risk implied
by these bonds? Are there any risks that
as an investor you're thinking about
that it might be different for companies
financing AI? We talk a lot about
whether there's an AI bubble. Are people
over optimistic about the demand for AI?
What would that mean for for bond
holders if say you know the AI kind of
revolution doesn't turn out to be as
advertised? Is there a kind of credit
risk that people should be thinking
about here too?
>> Yeah, that that's an excellent question.
So I'm going to separate it out into two
pieces. One is going to be the
financings that many companies have
issued to uh complete prior data centers
call it before 2025.
In many cases, what these hyperscalers
have done has been to partner with other
entities to co-own and co-barorrow on a
data center. Generally where they've
done that through is private lending and
these private lenders they take a range
of investors money and pension funds
money mostly institutions but some
individuals and they provide for loans.
And in the case of many of these, the
data center or the entity to which
they're lending to is sort of a
standalone project. And if that project
does well and becomes useful to its
sponsoring company, that's wonderful. If
it doesn't, well, then you've got sort
of this asset that might have credit
problems down the road and not have a
lot of use to its end uh sponsor. And
then maybe there's some questions that
this this this thing this unit this
joint venture this lending project could
fail. I think those risks are pretty
modest right now. Now the other piece I
wanted to mention briefly is what we
call the unsecured borrowing from a
company. So when a hyperscaler goes out
and uses its own creditworthiness to
borrow in the bond markets, generally
that's called an unsecured loan or an
unsecured bond. basically the company
promises to pay it back and so that that
portion so far is is pretty small but
hypothetically that could be what's
growing in the coming years and it
really could change the profile of the
corporate bond markets by quite a bit if
hyperscalers are genuinely issuing 100
or even 200 billion dollars a year of
borrowings because the the markets right
now don't have a lot of tech companies
in them but if that is the case over
multiple years all of a sudden theor
Corporate bond markets would end up
filled with tech borrowers as well.
>> Yeah. Tech companies generally haven't
been big borrowers just because they've
they've been so profitable. They've
generated such enormous kind of cash
flows. What would it mean if the bond
market started to feel like the equity
market? I mean, we talk all the time
about the concentration of the stock
market in big tech companies. Would that
be something problematic for investors
or like the stock market? Would people
just sort of say, well, that's where we
want to be. We want to be in these big
tech companies.
>> Well, ironically, the bond markets
already have a pretty big concentration
uh in one industry, which is banks. So,
banks have been prolific borrowers in
the bond markets for practical reasons
for for decades. And they do represent
about round numbers about 30% of the US
corporate bond markets. Tech companies
represent uh at the 7% range.
So again, hypothetically, if this trend
of borrowing from tech companies
continues, that portion could double
pretty readily. And so, ironically,
you'd probably have a little bit more of
a diverse corporate bond market. It
would be a little bit less concentrated
in the banks like it is today.
>> How would you sort of talk to an
investor about how to think about these
markets over the next years ahead as
tech companies really begin to take take
their rightful place uh in the bond
market as as as bigger issuers?
right now it's not that big of a
concern. Um, and the reason is that
pricing in the corporate bond markets,
we kind of think about it uh as
individual companies and maybe a little
bit as industries but mostly broken down
by credit ratings, right? So whether an
issuer is a tech company or say an
industrial is arguably less important
for their pricing than whether they are
rated double A or triple B. If we look
at where corporate spreads have trended
uh right now they're they're
historically pretty tight. They're in
about the 11thish percentile of all
history. So for that reason uh we don't
think the corporate bond markets are
very attractive right now. But if there
is an increase in issuance and spreads
widen to call it about the 30th
percentile of history which would be
about 90 basis points.9% over government
bonds that would be moderately
attractive.
>> What role does the Federal Reserve play
in in these dynamics? We know that
interest rates set by the Fed are you
know on the relative high side right now
but coming down. We've seen cuts. People
are anticipating more cuts. What does it
mean for the bond market and for issuers
if the Fed is cutting as as people
expect right now
>> as the Federal Reserve lowers their
target for overnight interest rates?
Interest rates in the market at large
will generally come down all else equal.
So when interest rates come down that
benefits bond prices today it's not
specific to corporate bonds or treasury
government bonds or high yield bonds. It
kind of benefits everything. So if the
Fed cuts, does that make corporate bonds
more appealing?
>> Yeah, I'm going to answer that a little
bit indirectly. So [snorts] one thing
that for sure the Federal Reserve
lowering lowering interest rates does is
it immediately lowers the income
generation on things like treasury
bills, on things like money market funds
on
>> very short-term money, essentially cash,
right?
>> Yeah. Things like bank accounts. And so
at least on that basis, the really
short-term instruments become less
attractive. And in general, intermediate
to longerterm corporate bonds, their
interest rates will be more stable. Uh
and so it does make sense for sure right
now to lock in at least a portion of
investment portfolios to intermediate to
longer term fixed income, whether that's
corporates or treasuries. And in part,
it's because the Federal Reserve is in
the process of cutting interest rates.
All right. Well, we've got one last
question for Gee Labs of Janie
Montgomery Scott after a break.
Welcome back. All right, so Gee, I know
on this show we use the word bubble a
lot. We talk a lot about a stock market
bubble. People can look at the PE ratio
of the S&P 500 and decide for themselves
if it's historically totally bizarre or
if it's justified. What about bonds? How
do we know if bonds are in a bubbly
market or not?
>> So I can say that that bond prices can
definitionally never be bubbleishious.
Why? Because a bond matures. We know its
value when it matures. And so there's no
infinite future potential in fixed
income. So bond prices can't be in a
bubble. Bond quantities, meaning like
the lending in markets, can be in a
bubble. and we saw one in 2005 through
2007.
>> Is there a way though for the stock
market bubble to find its way into the
bond market as all these tech companies
are coming to market? What might
investors ignore certain risks or not
ask for enough yield on AI related bonds
because they're they have such firm
conviction in that that maybe those
bonds become like really not not sort of
a good investment. So there's a world in
which all the borrowing from
hyperscalers and AI companies really
gets big and then those investments
don't pay off and then there are
problems down the road. You know as far
as borrowing for the AI expansion goes
we are in the maybe second inning. So
we've got a very long way to determine
whether there's bubble risk or not and
it's not visible from here.
>> All right. Right. So, it sounds like
you're saying maybe we should table some
of that bubble talk when it comes to the
bond market. But what is it that bond
investors should be thinking about as
all these tech companies kind of enter
that part of the market to finance the
AI revolution?
>> I think the most important thing and
this is for the economy large not just
bond investors is whether this
investment is both economically and
financially but also society productive.
Uh and that last one I think is a
particular question mark. there have
been no shortage of discussions about
the uh the economic and social value of
AI for the long run. I don't know what
that looks like. That is far above my
pay grade, but that's what I'd be a
little bit concerned about.
>> All right, Gee. Well, matters of
philosophy and society. Yeah, I guess
that's uh I guess that's that's a topic
for another episode. All right. Well,
Gee, thanks so much for joining us.
>> Thank you.
[music]
Her
question wasn't recorded for [laughter]
exactly. It also like wasn't it wasn't a
[music] question. I don't know. And then
it was [laughter] that one guy. There
was that one. We got that one guy. We
got that one guy who saved us. [music]